## Write notes for yourself by default, disregarding audience

> Because [Evergreen notes](https://notes.andymatuschak.org/z4SDCZQeRo4xFEQ8H4qrSqd68ucpgE6LU155C) can be used as part of a strategy for writing public work ([Executable strategy for writing](https://notes.andymatuschak.org/z3PBVkZ2SvsAgFXkjHsycBeyS6Cw1QXf7kcD8)), it’s tempting to “save time” by writing notes in publishable form. That might mean providing all the necessary background to understand some (boring to you) idea, or self-censoring, or adding lots of qualifiers, or spending lots of effort on clarity. Many of these practices can be somewhat useful as part of your own thinking process—for instance, clearer writing usually involves clearer thinking. But I find it substantially increases the overhead and effort in writing, often to the point of producing blockage.

> More concretely, this manifests as a common failure mode for me when I’m writing notes as part of explicit preparation for some public writing. I’ll often try to do both jobs at once. That is, I might be writing atomic-style notes ([Evergreen notes should be atomic](https://notes.andymatuschak.org/z4Rrmh17vMBbauEGnFPTZSK3UmdsGExLRfZz1)) but I try to write them _as if_ they’re sections in a larger essay or work. Or even just: I try to write things with all the context and clear prose needed for an outsider to understand what I’m talking about. Then I often find that I can’t write anything at all! Better to write at a level where I can produce something, then use that to lever myself upward. ([Evergreen notes permit smooth incremental progress in writing (“incremental writing”)](https://notes.andymatuschak.org/z6C5H4eYH2A4omfNLuUcDiKibQ1hZG2RGNZ97))

> When it’s a topic I understand well, I can write notes for both myself and an audience simultaneously. But that sometimes produces the false impression that I can pull this off all the time! To avoid that false impression, I’ll write notes for myself “by default,” and only “opt into” writing notes for an audience explicitly.

From [Write notes for yourself by default, disregarding audience](https://notes.andymatuschak.org/z8AfCaQJdp852orumhXPxHb3r278FHA9xZN8J).